
# Commands

* ***kubectl create***
    - When you use **kubectl create**, it will create the resource described in the file only if it does not already exist.

    - If the resource already exists, kubectl create will return an error, and you would need to modify the resource or delete it before attempting to create it again.
    
        ```bash
            kubectl create -f <file_name>.yml
        ```

* ***kubectl apply***
    - **kubectl apply** is more versatile and can be used to create or update resources.

    - If the resource already exists, **kubectl apply** will attempt to update the existing resource with the changes specified in the file. It uses a "declarative" approach, where the desired state is specified in the file, and Kubernetes tries to converge the actual state to the desired state

    - It is generally recommended to use **kubectl apply** for managing resources, especially when making changes to existing configurations.

        ```bash
            kubectl apply -f <file_name>.yml
        ```

* ***kubectl describe***
    - This command provides detailed information about the specified pod, including metadata, status, events, and more. It is helpful for troubleshooting and understanding the current state of the pod.

        ```bash
            kubectl describe pod <pod_name>
        ```

* ***kubectl logs***
    - This command retrieves the logs generated by the containers within the specified pod. It is useful for debugging and checking the output of your application.

       ```bash
            kubectl logs <pod_name>
        ```
    - The command prints the logs from the main container in the pod. If the pod has multiple containers, you can specify a container name with the **-c** flag:

        ```bash
            kubectl logs -c <container-name> <pod_name>
        ```

* ***kubectl events***
    - This command retrieves the events related to the pods and other Kubernetes objects in the cluster. Events can provide information about what actions have occurred and help in diagnosing issues.
    
        ```bash
            kubectl get events
        ```
    - The output shows events across various resources, and you can filter events for a specific pod using the **-f** or **--field-selector option**:
    
        ```bash
            kubectl get events --field-selector involvedObject.name=<pod_name>

        ```
* ***kubectl delete***
    - **Delete a specific pod by name:**

        ```bash
            kubectl delete pod <pod-name>
        ```
    - **Delete pods using a label selector**
        - If you want to delete multiple pods that share a specific label, you can use a label selector. For example, if you want to delete all pods with the label :

        ```bash
            kubectl delete pods -l <label_name>
        ```
    - **Delete all pods in a namespace:**
        -  If you want to delete all pods in a specific namespace, you can use:
         ```bash
            kubectl delete pods --all -n <namespace>
        ```
    - **To delete all pods :**
         ```bash
            kubectl delete --all pod
        ```

* ***kubectl exec***
    ```bash
        kubectl exec -it <pod-name> -- /bin/sh
    ```
    Replace **<pod-name>** with the actual name of your pod. This command opens an interactive shell **(/bin/sh)** inside the specified pod.

* **-it** enables the interactive mode and allocates a pseudo-TTY.

* **--** is used to separate the kubectl exec options from the command to be executed inside the container.

    Once inside the pod, you can interact with the container as if you were working on a regular command line. To exit the pod, simply type **exit**

    When a pod contains multiple containers, you can specify which container you want to access using the **-c** or **--container option** with the **kubectl exec** command. Here's the general syntax:

    ```bash
        kubectl exec -it <pod_name> -c <container_name_want to open> -- /bin/sh
    ```

*




